---
title: 'Casimir effect'
date: 2021-08-03
permalink: 
tags:
  - Casimir effect
  - quantum vacuum
  - Klein-Gordon field
  - regularization
---

In this post you will see what is the **bizarre Casimir Effect**. I will start telling you about _quantum fluctuations_, 
give you some qualitative definition of it and, then, two quantitative descriptions. As I warned you in the previous post 
([Harmonic Oscillator](https://natalidesanti.github.io/blog-post-3/)), the Physics/Mathematics behind of this effect are 
the _quantum harmonic oscillators_!

What are Quantum Fluctuations? And what heck is the quantum vacuum?
--------------------------

In _Classical Mechanics_ the evolution of a system of particles is given knowing the initial position $x$ and the
momentum $p$ of all particles, as well the forces applied on them. But, this way of "thinking" about the description
changes a lot when we go to _Quantum Mechanics_, due the **Uncertainty Principle** (of Heisenberg). This principle could
be expressed using two equations
\begin{equation}
 \Delta x \cdot \Delta p \gtrsim \hbar/2 ,
\end{equation}
\begin{equation}
 \Delta E \cdot \Delta t \gtrsim \hbar/2 .
\end{equation}
The first equation says that we cannot determine, with precision and at the same time, the position and momentum of some
particle. The second one implies that a perfect measure of the energy of some system needs an infinite time.

A really interesting consequence of this principle is that we can violate momentously the _conservation energy principle_
if and just if this happens by an interval of time very small, lower than $\hbar/(2 \Delta E)$. Here we have the 
**energy quantum fluctuations**! Then, using the energy-mass relation
\begin{equation}
 E = m c^2
\end{equation}
we can interpret the _quantum fluctuations of energy_, for instance, in the vacuum, as **virtual particles**. Because
those particles live just by an infinitesimal amount of time we cannot detect them. Although, we can "see" the effects
generated by their existence. Due to them, we have the mediation of fundamental interactions (like the strong iteraction
or even the virtual photons, in the electrical force) [1].

Ok, but why the title of this section contains the **quantum vacuum**? To be clear, everything! So, every time that we
think about _vacuum_ we imagine a physical region obtained excluding every kind of matter on it, right? However, the
entity **quantum vacuum** is a vacuum populated by a legion of particles, yeah, the _virtual particles_, that could not
be removed. And, of course, they exists due the quantum fluctuations!
